	Information about the Yoga 2 Pro (and other Yogas)


1/ Sensors

Yoga 2 Pros (and some other Yogas) have an HID sensor hub connected to an
ambient light sensor, a 3D accelerometer on the screen, a 3D gyrometer on
the screen, a 3D compass on the screen, a 3D inclinometer on the screen, a
device orientation sensor, and a custom sensor that includes a 3D
accelerometer on the base.  The 3D accelerometer on the screen can be used
to determine the orientation of the screen.  The two accelerometers could be
used to determine the hinge angle.

The first four sensors partly work in 3.12 kernels that include the
hid-sensor-hub and IIO bus drivers.  If /dev/iio:device0 exists then the
drivers are available.  However, the sensors or sensor hub are not reliably
initialized in 3.12.  The sensors can, individually, end up either making no
reports, making reports only when values change significantly, or making a
stream of reports.  Poking the sensors and rebooting may put them into a
reasonable state.  In 3.13 the sensors appear to be reliably
mis-initialized.  There is a fix in the works.

There is a program that reads the 3D accelerometer on the screen, determines
the screen's orientation, and rotates it and the touchscreen appropriately.
The program is available at https://github.com/pfps/yoga-laptop.git


2/ Function Keys and Non-keyboard Buttons

Yoga 2 Pros and many other Yogas have 17 labeled Fn keys on the keypad
and several buttons/keys outside the keyboard.  The 12 Fn keys on the top
row have Fn behaviour by default, whereas the other five have non-Fn
behaviour by default.

Mute (F1), Volume Down (F2), Volume Up (F3), Close Window (F4), Toggle
Displays (F10), Screen Bright Dwn (F11), and Screen Bright Up (F12) keys all
produce characters and/or ACPI events that are hooked up to correct actions
in XFCE 4.10 (and probably in most other Linux desktop environments).  The
Volume Down and Volume Up buttons on the side are indistinguishable from
Volume Down (F2) and Volume Up (F3).  The Power key on the side produces an
ACPI event that is correctly handled in XFCE 4.10.

ScrLk and Insert produce the correct characters, which are sent on to
applications.

Screen Backlight (F9) and Keyboard Backlight (space) appear to be handled in
firmware.  They work correctly, but produce no keyboard scan codes or
notifications at all.

Display Apps (F8) produces Cntl_L Alt_L Tab, which does not elicit any
special behaviour (under XFCE 4.10).  Rotation Lock on the side produces
Super_L o, which does not elicit any special behaviour (under XFCE 4.10) but
can be hotkeyed to signal the orientation program if desired.  The command
to trigger is 'pkill --signal SIGUSR1 --exact orientation'.

Airplane Mode (F7) produces ACPI Notify 0x2000, which is correctly handled
by the ideapad_laptop module.  The Novo button on the side produces ACPI
Notify 0x0008, which is reasonably handled by the ideapad_laptop module.
ACPI Notify 0x0040 is done during lid close when AC power is connected (and
sometimes when it is not).  The ideapad_laptop module handles this
reasonably.  However, ideapad_laptop assumes that the laptop has an RF kill
switch and breaks WiFi on Yogas.  I have contributed a patch that recognizes
the Yoga 2 Pro and works correctly for them.

Refresh Desktop (F5) appears to be indistinguishable from F5.  

The Windows button on the screen appears to be indistinguishable from the
Windows key on the keyboard, except that both the down and up events are
triggered on button release.  It is thus practically useless.  Changing the
behaviour of this key would permit it to be used to modify touchscreen
touches.  However, this behaviour appears to be done by the embedded
controller, and change may not be possible

Disable Touchpad (F6) produces scan codes that are not recognized.  This can
be fixed by 'sudo setkeycodes e03f 191' and then setting XF86TouchPadToggle
to trigger a script to toggle the state of the touchpad.  Pause and Break
produce the same character.  This can be fixed by 'sudo setkeycodes e046
124; xmodmap -e "keycode 132 = Break"'.  Be sure that keycode 124 is not
used for any other key.  The easiest way to set up these two keys is to
utilize udev by creating etc/udev/hwdb.d/90-yoga-keyboard.hwdb, containing

keyboard:dmi:bvn*:bvr*:bd*:svnLENOVO*:pn*20266*:pvr*
 KEYBOARD_KEY_bf=f21		# should be touchpad_toggle, but f21 is used for this
 KEYBOARD_KEY_c6=f24		# should be break, but need something < 255

Then 
  sudo udevadm hwdb --update
